\begin{abstract}
Recently the blockchain space has exploded with a plethora of new
cryptocurrencies covering a wide array of different features. Each of these
coins functions in a stand-alone manner.  Sidechains have been envisioned as a
mechanism to allow blockchains to communicate with one another and allow the
transfer of value between them, but so far there have been no decentralized
constructions.

In this thesis, we put forth the first decentralized communication mechanism
between proof-of-work and proof-of-stake blockchains, or combinations thereof.
To construct it, we propose two new cryptographic primitives
which function as cross-chain certificates. For proof-of-stake sources, the ATMS
primitive (Ad-Hoc Threshold Multisignatures) allows attesting to the shifting of
stake from epoch to epoch. For proof-of-work sources, the NIPoPoWs primitive
(Non-Interactive Proofs of Proof-of-Work) allows compressing proof-of-work into
succinct strings that shrink a long blockchain into a short proof. We provide
the first ATMS and NIPoPoWs constructions. We put forth the first definition of
sidechain security and formally prove our constructions secure. Our proofs are
in the Backbone model for work and in the Ouroboros model for stake.

Our cross-chain certificates allow the transmission of generic information
between blockchains. Therefore, one application is the construction of clients
with small communication complexity. These superlight clients are the first
asymptotic improvement upon SPV. For work, our proofs are polylogarithmic in
chain length. For stake, our proofs are linear in the epoch count. We describe
multiple applications of our sidechains, including proof-of-burn-based one-way
pegs and two-way pegs.
We demonstrate the feasibility of our schemes with experiments, simulations, and
implementations, including measurements of security and performance metrics. We
give concrete proposals for deployment security parameters. We have worked with
the industry to ensure implementation in practice. Our protocols have been
implemented and deployed in the real world proof-of-work blockchains ERGO, nimiq
and WebDollar and the proof-of-stake blockchain Cardano.

% Future work: we will consider the security of our construction in a semi-synchronous setting. We will also explore the feasibility of various sidechain topologies and the challenges occurring throughout the lifecycle of a blockchain and its sidechains, from the birth of a sidechain where honest majority is difficult to achieve, to the death of a blockchain in which its assets need to be migrated to new blockchains. Last, we will provide full production implementations for both proof-of-stake (in the Cardano cryptocurrency) and in proof-of-work (in the Ethereum, Ethereum Classic and Bitcoin Cash) settings, as well as hybrid settings.
\end{abstract}
