\section*{Acknowledgements}

I am indebted to IOHK who generously funded my salary and my numerous conference
participations during the years of my PhD. Charles Hoskinson personally ensured
I would never have to worry about funding during my doctoral work. I am also
thankful to the ERC project CODAMODA as well as OB1 and FrostWire for partially
funding my work.

I could not have completed this thesis without the continuous exchange of ideas
with my computer scientist colleagues who read my papers and this thesis and
provided feedback: My co-authors Dimitris Karakostas, Orfeas Stefanos
Thyfronitis Litos, Andrew Miller, Peter Ga\v{z}i, Zeta Avarikioti, Roman
Brunner, Roger Wattenhofer, Christos Nasikas, and Nikos Leonardos; my University
of Athens colleagues, Katerina Samari, Orestis Konstantinidis, Pyrros Chaidos,
Giorgos Panagiotakos, Thomas Zacharitas, Yiannis Tselekounis; my colleagues
around the world, Angel Leon, Sam Patterson, Brian Hoffman, Washington Sanchez,
Alexei Zamyatin; my mentors, Andrew McCann who taught me how to code, Andreas
Moser who taught me to follow my heart, Dimitris Fotakis who taught me to count,
Nikos Papaspyrou who taught me how to think, Aristidis Arageorgis who taught me
how to speak, and Aris Pagourtzis, who supervised my master thesis; the people
whom I've taught and been taught by, Aleksis Brezas, Petros Angelatos, Kostis
Karantias, Themis Papameletiou, Dimitris Lamprinos, Vitalis Salis, Eva
Sarafianou, Christos Porios, Giorgos Christoglou, Panagiotis Kostopanagiots and
all my other teachers, students, and colleagues; and the people who enabled this
work but were not in the spotlight: Tatiana Kyrou, Mirjam Wester, Costas
Saragkas, Leonidas Tsagkalias.

My parents, Efi and Spyros, and my sister Natalia have always inspired me and
been patient and loving. Thank you.

Last and most importantly, I want to thank my advisor Aggelos Kiayias for
giving me the space and opportunity to learn on my own. But also closely and
patiently mentoring me and teaching me modern cryptography, the importance of
precise definitions, assumptions and proofs, \emph{how to prove and how to
refute}. Above all, for teaching me about the scientific method, the philosophy
of science, the love for what we do, and \emph{the moral character of
cryptographic work}. I am greatly honoured to be his student in the
paradigm shift he is leading in the field of blockchain science,
political cryptography, and decentralized financial cryptography.
